.src/index.md, before:

# Your Homepage
Now you're using `kagami` like a pro!

Get started with this sample `kagami` template and read the documentation for more information.

```
 __                                                   __
|  \                                                 |  \
| $$   __  ______    ______    ______   ______ ____   \$$
| $$  /  \|      \  /      \  |      \ |      \    \ |  \
| $$_/  $$ \$$$$$$\|  $$$$$$\  \$$$$$$\| $$$$$$\$$$$\| $$
| $$   $$ /      $$| $$  | $$ /      $$| $$ | $$ | $$| $$
| $$$$$$\|  $$$$$$$| $$__| $$|  $$$$$$$| $$ | $$ | $$| $$
| $$  \$$\\$$     $$ \$$    $$ \$$    $$| $$ | $$ | $$| $$
 \$$   \$$ \$$$$$$$ _\$$$$$$$  \$$$$$$$ \$$  \$$  \$$ \$$
                   |  \__| $$
                    \$$    $$
                     \$$$$$$
```

## This site was built using the following parameters:
Options `{markdown}`

* Document Root: `{DOC_ROOT}`
* Working Dir: `{working_dir}`
* Source Dir: `{source_dir}`
* Config Dir: `{config_dir}`

{TOC}

When writing structured pages, you can include a dynamically generated
table of contents anywhere on your pages by using the built-in local `TOC` macro.

Files named `index.md` will feature a dynamically generated list of other pages
in the same directory containing `<!-- date XXXX/XX/XX -->` metadata tags
appended to the bottom of this document, sorted by creation date.

Commit message:

Updated example template to demonstrate RSS feed support

.src/index.md, after:

# Your Homepage

Now you're using `kagami` like a pro!

Get started with this sample `kagami` template and read the documentation for more information.

```
 __                                                   __
|  \                                                 |  \
| $$   __  ______    ______    ______   ______ ____   \$$
| $$  /  \|      \  /      \  |      \ |      \    \ |  \
| $$_/  $$ \$$$$$$\|  $$$$$$\  \$$$$$$\| $$$$$$\$$$$\| $$
| $$   $$ /      $$| $$  | $$ /      $$| $$ | $$ | $$| $$
| $$$$$$\|  $$$$$$$| $$__| $$|  $$$$$$$| $$ | $$ | $$| $$
| $$  \$$\\$$     $$ \$$    $$ \$$    $$| $$ | $$ | $$| $$
 \$$   \$$ \$$$$$$$ _\$$$$$$$  \$$$$$$$ \$$  \$$  \$$ \$$
                   |  \__| $$
                    \$$    $$
                     \$$$$$$
```

## This site was built using the following parameters
Options `{markdown}`

* Document Root: `{DOC_ROOT}`
* Working Dir: `{working_dir}`
* Source Dir: `{source_dir}`
* Config Dir: `{config_dir}`

## A note on dynamic features
{TOC}

When writing structured pages, you can include a dynamically generated
table of contents anywhere on your pages by using the built-in local `TOC` macro.

Files named `index.md` will feature a dynamically generated list of other pages
in the same directory containing `<!-- date XXXX/XX/XX -->` metadata tags
appended to the bottom of this document, sorted by creation date.

They will also be appended to the RSS feed `{DOC_ROOT}/rss.xml`.
